All right.
So we have the categories form now.
We have the user input.
We are able to get that.
So we're going to send it to our banking for that.
Obviously, we have to work on the back end, quit droughts, controller functions and even schemas.
So let's head over to our server and we're going to start with the models.
Actually, let me show you the user model which we have already used.
So as you can see here on the user schema, this is the schema and user model has been created based
on this scheme.
So you can see the schema has this name, email, password, role, it means reset calls, all these
properties you can see in the database for each user.
All right.
So what is what is written in the schema?
Those fields will be you will be able to save in the database.
But if it is not in the schema, for example, about okay, so there is no property by the name of about
in the user scheme.
So in this case, if you send some data from your React application to your back end to create a user,
the maybe you send about.
Property with some values.
And you tried to say that in the database that will not be saved because that is not written in the
scheme.
So you have to understand it like that.
So anything you want to save in the database for this particular model, user model, you need to write
them in the schema first.
So you write you give the type what type of data it's going to be, if it is required or not.
If it is required, then if you don't.
Have this, when are you saving the user?
Then you get some kind of error because it is required.
You can see it has to be unique.
If something like email that has to be unique, then those things, everything you can write in your
schema that's a is schemas.
Basically, they're there to tell you what you can save in the database for that particular model.
Right.
So it's going to be something similar but a bit simpler for categories.
So it's good new model and let's call it category.
It is.
I guess.
Yeah.
First we can.
We have to require a mongoose, right?
So you may have noticed that in Node.js we use recoil, whereas in react to use import, I see India
in react, we use import, but notice it doesn't support import and export syntax by default.
All right.
So if you want to use import and export, it's actually not that difficult, but it does support out
of the box.
So if you want, which is something I want, I'm used to writing import export in react and it's quite.
Easy.
This is fluent, so let's try using a package called ESM that will easily allow you to use import and
export syntax.
So you just yeah, it should be a bit more comfortable for you as it because you can use the same syntax
in the front and the back end as well.
All right.
So let's go ahead and install that back is in now.
So let me start this one control C and then insert NPM I ESM.
This package is something you can use in products and as well it is built for products and it is excellent
base.
I'd say it's not just for development.
Okay, so it's quickly installed.
Now let's run the server back again and if you want, you can quickly check out the NPM docs for this
one.
So NPM is an if you search.
And have a quick look.
I assume it's a bit of intro on this one and it's quite public library and to start using this one.
We can.
This use is the same before in our start script in back is different this.
All right.
And then instead of requiring like that.
We can just use input X for syntax and this is something we can do before we deploy the application
to our cloud server, which I will be covering later as well.
All right.
So let me close this.
Come back and start using that ESM Pegasus.
All right.
So here in the package addition, we can use Node one death, our ESM, and that is all we need to do
at the moment.
Now, I'm not going to do it just for a second few seconds, just so that I can show you what happens
if you tried to use import export syntax.
All right.
So let me try importing mongoose first goose from mongoose.
Okay.
All right.
Now.
Let me quickly have a look at the auto model.
You can see we import mongoose and we destructor schema from mongoose.
All right.
So we can do that here as well.
And then we create a category schemas, icons, category schematic with new scheme.
So we use the new keyword to create a new instance of the mongoose scheme.
So this is a function, as you can see, there's a function and in this function you write your schema.
So every time you want to create a category, you add one just to one field, basically just the name.
But we will also use this slug as well as the name with the type of string.
It'll be the string tied and then required to.
So we want to make sure every time we want to create a category, we want to save in the database.
The name is required.
Right.
And then we want to.
Slowly as well.
Slowly.
Something we need.
How many for a sea of porpoise?
Let me quickly show you why we need to slow.
So let me go to the finish project.
If you go to the home base and you can see here we have all these categories.
In all these categories.
All these posts.
Some categories.
Previously, I created this category called monastic.
Now, if I click here, that will take me to this category piece if I click here.
You can see in the year we have categories less monastic, that monastic.
But that is the slow.
All right I if I click on this three you can see categories less this three so that this three is a
slope.
So usually the slopes are all lowercase now empty space.
If there's empty space, you need to make sure to have some kind of death or something so there is no
empty space.
Okay, so this is really good for issue.
Because if we didn't have the slug, then we couldn't.
So that category, based on the category I.D. I.D. is something that is created whenever you save anything
in the MongoDB to automatically create.
So that is the only way we could.
So this category which might look something like this.
Now, this is not good for issue and it's not even good for users because it's not really user friendly
and needs.
It's hard to remember no one actually used.
Like this one.
So obviously you want to use slow so that it's user friendly, it's good and it's issue as well.
So for that reason, we want to sort of save the slot.
So so you want to make sure it's again again, it's a type of string and unique to it will always be
unique have to be same with the name because if you have to get engaged with the same slug, then it's
not going to work and then lowercase too.
So this is something you can use with MongoDB in the in the schema with Mongoose, it's really useful
because that way we wouldn't have to.
Lowercase ourself when we are serving the category.
Slug will be automatically unlock.
Okay.
So that's all we need to create a category schema.
We just need the name and the slug.
Now, this schema, this function, you can see this is what we write in our schema.
So think of it as the first argument.
You can actually pass a second element here, comma.
Second argument is time timestamps too.
I always like to use the time stamps because this will give you.
The created at and updated add fields automatically it will create and anytime you save anything in
the database that way it's going to be super useful because later, you know, when the category was
created and when it was updated.
All right.
So I always like to use the time stamp strip and that's pretty much it.
That's that's all we need.
Now we can export the schema module, don't export so we can use that syntax all.
We can use them more than a bit more than indexing to using import and export.
So we can use just like we do it in react to export default.
Mine was model, just like we used Mungo's model earlier in the user scheme as well.
But this one was using require, so you can leave it like that.
You didn't have to change it.
We did it like that mongoose dirt model.
Give the model name.
I'll make sure it is kept stuck.
It's a convention and then the schema.
So we're going to do something similar.
Yeah.
Explore different models.
Did model use a model name category with the capital C and it is based on the category scheme.
Category schema.
Beautiful.
Okay.
So I have a typo here.
Slim.
That is too beautiful.
So this is how you create a schema.
So now that we have a schema, we can go ahead and create a root control function so that we can start
saving the categories.